Welcome back to Movie Recaps. Today
I will show you an action, adventure,
fantasy film from 2011, titled Priest.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
The priests can be seen closing in on the Sola
Mira Hive. Once they manage their way inside,
Black Hat observes that there is something
wrong, but Priest is adamant about their
orders to find the Queen, so they press on. They
hear some noises up front and ready their weapons,
when they suddenly realizes that it's a
trap, as there people get pulled under
ground. Some of them get taken and others
escape toward the daylight. Though when
they reach the last tunnel Priest doesn't
succeed in helping Black Hat avoid capture.
The world of the priests is a world that had
always had vampires. A bloody war between the
humans and the vampires had been fought for ages,
destroying each other and the world itself. Facing
extinction, the humans retreated into walled
cities under the protection of the church.
Then they created the ultimate weapon
against the vampires - the priests.
They were powerful warriors, trained in the art of
vampire combat, who singlehandedly decimated the
vampire threat. The remaining vampires were put
into reservations, so the church disbanded the
priests. Only a few of them remain, integrated
into a society that no longer needed them,
falling into obscurity along with the vampires.
Many years later, Owen bores into the ground
checking the levels of radiation. He tells his
wife Shannon that according to his findings,
they might be able to start planting. Lucy arrives
home and immediately makes a sly remark about the
food she can smell. Owen asks her where she has
been and when she says that she was in town,
he gets angry because she disobeyed his word. She
says that she's old enough, but he tells her that
rule doesn't apply to where they live. Sacrifices
need to be made there. Lucy gets angry because she
feels like a prisoner in the outpost they live
in. Shannon interrupts their argument and makes
them say grace, effectively calming them both.
Suddenly, the ground shakes and Lucy gets scared.
Owen checks outside and sees a pack of vampires
approaching the house. He tells the women to get
down bellow. Shannon opens their hiding place
and gets Lucy inside, telling her not to scream
whatever she hears. She remains in the house to
help Owen. Lucy hears gunshots and her parent s
screaming, being ripped apart by the vampires. The
hatch opens and someone walks in, terrifying Lucy.
Cathedral City's skyline can be seen. It is still
under the protection of the church. Its denizens
are constantly under the eye of the ruling clergy.
As Priest can be seen walking among the people,
the church bells toll and everyone stops to pay
homage, with an disembodied voice saying that to
go against the church is to go against god. Priest
goes to a confessional and enters the automated
booth. He begs to be forgiven for his sins and his
voice is recognized by the machine. An automated
Monsignor Orelas appears on screen and the
priest immediately moves to his confession.
He had dreams about the war with the vampires and
the time when he couldn't save one of his men.
The priest has begun to question and doubt his
faith. The automated Monsignor replies that
the devil has many shapes and that one can
combat him by personal sacrifice and labor,
then gives him his prayers of contrition.
Later, the priest is going back to his home
and is in an elevator with a boy and his mom.
The boy asks about his tattoo, but his mom
tells him that he mustn't talk to priests.
Just as he is about to enter his apartment,
he knock over a man that has been following him.
Hicks tells him that he is the sheriff where his
brother Owen lives and that he's been hurt,
Lucy taken by the vampires and Shannon killed.
The man follows the priest inside and tells him
that Lucy has talked about him as a war hero,
the best at killing vampires. He says that he will
go after her and he could use him by his side.
The priest can't just accept. He goes to see the
ruling clergy to ask them for the reinstatement
of his authority as a Priest. Monsignor Orelas was
informed by Monsignor Chamberlain of his troubles.
The priest tells them that his family was attacked
by vampires, to which the Monsignor laughs, saying
that no vampire has escaped the reservations. He
thinks that it was the work of wasteland bandits
and that the sheriff was mistaken. The Monsignor
says that there is no vampire threat anymore.
Chamberlain tries to aid the Priest in his
quest, but he shuts him down and orders the
Priest not to shake the faith of the citizens.
The priest continues to question him and he is
reminded by the Monsignor that questioning the
authority of the clergy is absolutely forbidden.
If he disobeys them, he would be stripped
from the order and excommunicated.
Meanwhile, in a fast moving train, Lucy is kept
in a cage by the vampires. She's taunted by one
of them, until Black Hat arrives. He tells her
that she's in a cage for her own protection.
She tells him that her uncle the Priest will come
after her and him. What she doesn't know is that
Black Hat is counting on that fact precisely.
Monsignor Chamberlain tells the Priest that the
judgment is final, but he is disappointed that
after all that he has sacrificed they wouldn't
listen to him. Chamberlain says that the war
has long been won and the priest disagrees.
He tells the priest not to commit sacrilege
just to hunt down a small band of scavengers.
The priest says that he has too and police storm
the bar that they are in. Chamberlain says that
he needs to think of the greater good and not
stir up something that might cause more damage.
The priest is disappointed, even though
Chamberlain wants to help him not make a mistake.
He is ready to break his vow and takes down
the officers one by one in a matter of seconds.
Later, he is seen preparing himself and his
weapons to go after the girl. He uncovers his
vessel and rides out of Cathedral City. The priest
leaves the final vestiges of the human world and
enters the desolate and cruel landscape of the
wasteland. With incredible speed, he reaches his
brother's outpost. The priest enters the trashed
homestead and finds a photo of Owen's family. The
sheriff thinks he's looting, but when he realizes
it's the priest he's glad to see him come.
They ride to town together. Once they arrive,
the sheriff gets a salesmen out of his town for
trying to sell his people fake weapons against
the vampires. The townspeople protest and say
they do need the weapons, but Hicks tells them
that there are no more vampires. Later, him and
the priest talk while waiting for the doctor
to let them see Owen. The priest walks in and
sits next to him. Owen asks him why he never came
back, to which he says that he no longer could.
When Owen laments that he could not save
Shannon because he didn't have his gift,
the priest comforts him saying that he gave her a
life that he couldn’t. She never forgot about him.
Owen begs him to promise that he will find Lucy
and kill all of the vampires. Later, the sheriff
tells the priest that the clergy is looking for
him and that they don't allow the rescue of Lucy.
He says that he wants to join the priest's rescue
party, but he tests him by refusing. Hicks grabs
a bullet and cuts it in half mid air with a knife.
The priest asks if he's any good with a gun and he
tells him that he's even better than with a knife.
Before he leaves the room, he asks the priest why
he's preparing the bullets since they don't
use guns and he replies that they are for him.
Back in Cathedral city a squadron of priests has
been called in to the Monsignors. Their orders are
to bring Priest in, dead or alive. Priestess
doesn't like that order. But they still ride.
Priest attends his brothers funeral,
who's been laid to rest next to Shannon.
Hicks joins him at Owen's outpost and asks what
he's found. The priest has found footsteps that
don't match to either the vampires or their
familiars. They will begin the search in the
direction where those came from. The two of them
ride out to the closest vampire reservation. The
sheriff says that they are a fallen tribe. They
won't have much time since the Sun is coming down.
Once they enter, they see that there are no
guards there and that the place is crawling
with illegal familiars. The sheriff explains that
most of those people are voluntary familiars,
wanting to get infected eventually. They approach
a familiar and he tells them that the priest isn't
welcome there because their lands are protected.
The sheriff tells him what their looking for and
the familiar says that no one has passed through
their reservation. They open the main gate and
walk inside, finding the place in a terrible state
and the guards bodies scattered on the ground.
The priest walks into a cell and interrogates
a familiar, threatening him that he will open
his master's coffin if he doesn't tell him where
Lucy is. Suddenly a group of familiars appears,
ready to fight. They attack the sheriff
who runs outside, just to be attacked by
the other familiar. The priest appears just
in time and kills the familiars, except one.
He interrogates him, but he defends the vampires
and makes the priest out to be the monster.
The sun begins to go down and he tells him that
he's too late, because the night is their time.
Once the sun has set, the vampires come out
of their coffins and instantly surround the
priest and the sheriff. The priest
takes out a bible and begins to read,
but instantly pulls out weapons from between the
pages and uses them to kill two of the vampires.
He battles another, while Hicks tries to shoot
one, but when he gets overpowered the priest
kills that one too. Suddenly, one of the
vampires lets out a scream and runs away.
The priest returns to the familiar and asks
him again. He says that they took her West,
but that he doesn't even know what is coming.
The vampire comes back and attacks the priest.
They battle and fall inside the confines of the
reservation. Hicks waits with his gun out, but
the priest is the one to get out alive. The two of
them talk about what they should do and the priest
says that the Sola Mira Hive is out West. Hicks
has thought that all of the hives were destroyed,
but he says that they should still check and
perhaps if they find the missing vampires from
the reservation, they will also find Lucy. Then he
gives Hicks a few pointers on how to kill vampires
because they don't move like humans. If he wants
to kill one, he needs to anticipate their moves.
In the meantime, the salesman from the town pays
a visit to Black Hat to give him some information.
He asks for some compensation, but
Black Hat threatens to drink his blood,
so he gives him the information regardless.
The salesman tells him that the priest
showed up in the town after they took
Lucy and that he was with the sheriff.
Black Hat tells him that he's done well, but still
drinks his blood and makes him into a familiar.
Simultaneously, Priestess has arrived to
the outpost and she is on their trail.
The Priest and the sheriff ride out West. While
having a break, the priest asks him if his brother
knew that Hicks was together with Lucy, to which
he replies no. And to his question if he loved
her, he replies yes. The priest tells him that
if she's infected he'll kill her. The sheriff
says that he won't allow him to do that. Finally,
they arrive at he hive and climb its walls. Once
they step inside, the priest has flashbacks of the
time he was there during the war. He lights up the
hive and tells the sheriff to shoot anything that
comes up and isn't him. The priest drops down in
the shaft. Hicks finds a toy buried under the dirt
and explores the level of the hive that he's on.
A creature appears behind him. In the meantime,
Priest investigates the tunnels of the hive.
He sees someone run past him and follows them.
When he sees a light at the end of a tunnel,
he gets jumped by Priestess. Priest asks her
what she's doing there and she tells him that
she was sent by the clergy. She and the others
split up at the reservation. He tells her that
he had no choice but to brake his vow. They hear
shots in the distance. When they find Hicks,
Priest tells him that the creature is a hive
guardian, that's too big to get down there. Priest
and Priestess jump out to fight it. The creature
knocks Priest out and then runs after Priestess.
It circles them from above waiting to strike. They
work together to get to the creature and Priest
is the one to strike the last blow. Suddenly,
the creature awakes and Hicks shoots it dead.
Later, the priests talk, while Hicks guards the
entrance. Priestess asks why would there be a
guardian in an abandoned hive. Then she tells
him that the sheriff will try to stop him from
killing Lucy if she's infected. Priest thinks he
wouldn't be able to. They talk about what they
did after the war and share their hardships.
She tells him that she won't take him in,
but that she came there to warn him. She, much
like him, is suffering from PTSD from the war.
In the good moments though, she thinks about
him. The three of them continue exploring the
hive and get to a new, rebuilt section.
They go in, only to find a massive hive,
made for a new army. The only problem is that
there is no one there. As they continue to
investigate, Priestess tells Hicks that Priest was
taken much later by the clergy and his sacrifice
was greater than for most of them. He walks
up to them saying that the air is changing and
they find a huge exit looking to the town of
Jericho, where the other priests were headed.
Simultaneously, the vampire train arrives at the
Jericho station, to the disbelief of the man who
works there. It stops right in front of him, but
no one gets out. When he goes to check the door,
a vampire kills him. Then Black Hat walks
out, calling the others to begin (the hunt).
A family is listening to music, when a vampire
crashes into their home and kills the father.
The entire town is under attack of the vampire
army, as Black Hat conducts it like an opera.
Suddenly the three priests that were after
Priest arrive and face him. He takes down the
first one with no problem. Black Hat asks the
two remaining ones if they want to join him.
The following morning, the group arrives at
the town, to find it desolate. They separate
to search through the buildings. Priestess finds
dynamite. And Priest walks into an empty house.
Hicks and Priestess meet up and he tells her that
there is no one left. She says there were too many
mouth to feed. They find Priest in the middle
of town, praying in front of the bodies of the
other priests. She joins him on the ground. Hicks
asks what kind of vampire could have killed three
of them. Priest replies that it is something
they haven't seen before. Then he realizes how
the vampires could have vanished from the city
before sun rise. They go to the train station,
where Hicks tells them that the rail goes up
to the cities and Jericho is the last stop in
the wasteland. Priestess and Priest realize that
the entire thing was a systematic plan to get the
priests outside of the cities, so that the entire
vampire army can take down the defenseless cities.
She shows them the dynamite and makes a plan
in which she will take down the railway and
the two of them will get Lucy from the
train. Priest heads to fuel the bikes.
Meanwhile, Black Hat offers food
to a very tired and battered Lucy.
He tells her that he wants what everyone wants,
to be free to live without the penalty of sin.
Lucy grabs a knife and hides
it, then asks him what he is.
He explains that he thinks that the vampires
are more pure than the humans and that he is the
one that will wash clean the unclean world. Black
Hat adds that her and Priest will help him do it.
Back in Jericho, Hicks asks Priestess how can
Priest kill Lucy if she's infected when she is
he's own flesh and blood. She tells him that
becoming a familiar means that she is no ones
flesh and blood anymore. Before they leave town,
they burn the bodies of the other three priests.
Priestess tells Priest to remember that their
power doesn't come from the church, but from god.
She loves him and tells him that a part of her
hoped that Shannon's death would free him at last,
then leaves him with a special weapon. They ride
together toward the train and stop to oversee it,
when Hicks threatens to kill them if he doesn't
promise that he won't kill Lucy if she's turned.
He's confused as to why he would even care.
Priestess says that Lucy is his daughter,
who was just a baby when the clergy took him.
He gave her to Owen and that was his sacrifice.
Priest tells him that if he kills him,
he won't be able to save her by himself,
but the can only do it together. As they approach
the train Priest tells Priestess to blow up the
rails regardless if they are still on it. Hicks
enters the train from the back. She rides out in
front and familiar riders go after her. Priestess
engages her nitro drive and escapes them. Hicks
walks into a vampire layer and Priest gets on top
of the train, where Black Hat is waiting for him.
Black Hat explains to the bewildered priest that
the vampire queen turned him into a human vampire
and asks him to join him so they can return to the
city as brothers. Priest asks about his daughter
and he tells him that she's waiting for his
decision. He attacks him, but Black Hat deflects
his attack and tells him that he's stronger than
him now so he can't win. Meanwhile, Priestess sets
up the explosives on the tracks and arms them,
as she sees the riders incoming. She prepares
to fight them and engages with them instantly. She
kills them all in an incredible feat of power and
technique. Suddenly, she notices that one of the
familiars has taken apart the detonator and she
comes up with a new plan. Priest and Black Hat are
fighting on the train, almost matching in skill
and strength. But the vampire always finds the
upper hand. He asks the priest to join him again,
but he refuses and flings his fist toward
him, with Black Hat dodging his every move.
He knocks priest over and thinks he's pushed him
under the tracks, but he latches on to the rain.
Simultaneously, Hicks is navigating through the
train and escapes a hive of vampires awakening,
then he runs into Lucy, being taken away by
a familiar. He wants to blow up the door,
when the priest punches his way into the train.
All of a sudden, the vampires enter the train car.
Hicks shoots at them first, then blows holes
in the celling for the sunlight to come in.
They go after Lucy through the train and when they
eventually reach her, Black Hat stops them from
getting to her, throwing Hicks off the train.
Hicks finds a familiar’s motorcycle. Priest is
getting trashed by Black Hat, but Lucy manages to
get out of her captors grip and light him on fire.
Then she goes after the vampire, who tells her
that the priest is her father. They fight again
and he stabs the priest to a wall. Black Hat takes
Lucy out of the train and leave priest to burn.
At the same time, Priestess has mounted the
explosives on her bike and rides toward the train.
Priest wakes up and gets himself off the
wall. Black Hat is ready to turn Lucy,
when he suddenly appears and strikes
him. She falls, but he grabs her in time.
They dangle of the side of the train and Black
Hat gets ready to push them off, when they see
Priestess approaching. She jumps of the bike as
it hits the train and Priest jumps off of it,
holding Lucy, at the same time. The train gets
decimated along with all the vampires in it.
Hicks sees the explosion and rushes toward it.
He arrives and finds Priest and Lucy alive.
The girl jumps in his arms. Priestess walks toward
them and Black Hat's hat falls on the ground.
Later, Priest enters a mass held by Monsignor
Orelas. He approaches him as he belittles him
for coming back. Priest throws a vampire head
in front of his legs and tells him to check the
burning train outside of the city. He says that
the vampire queen was not among them. Orelas
calls him a charlatan and a menace. Priest
says that the war with the vampires is just
beginning as he walks out. He meets Priestess in
the wasteland who informs him that she has told
the others who will meet them at the rendezvous
in another city. He rides away into the sunset.